README.md, before:

super duper pre pre alpha.

extension of sqlite language with import/export

Brief nonnormative rundown of the syntax that is subject to change at whim and probably without updating this document. For the time being further information will have to refer to the source. (Plan to have it locked down with machine-checked documentation and examples for beta).

ETLite is a superset of a (large) subset of SQLite.

These additional statements are added:
- USE [DB|DATABASE] name - allows an ETLite script to specify an existing SQLite database to be the master db of the connection. (Must be first statement in script).
- DISPLAY [TO device] [AS format] [FRAME name] - allows changing the output format and IO redirection.
- IMPORT [TEMP|TEMPORARY] [table] [(col1, col2, ...)] [FROM device] [WITH format] [FRAME name] [LIMIT n] [OFFSET n]  - allows reading formatted data into a table.
- ASSERT message, subquery - halt execution based on result of subquery.

Additionally, the @ placeholders work as follows: For @n where n is a natural number, this is the nth command line argument to the script or NULL. Otherwise @X refers to the environment variable X (or NULL if not set). Placeholders cannot be used in triggers.

For both DISPLAY and IMPORT, a FRAME names a table in a multitable format. (None are supported currently).

Currently the formats are
- CSV [STRICT] [DELIM rune] [EOL DEFAULT|LF|UNIX|CRLF|WINDOWS] [NULL string] [HDR|HEADER]
- RAW [STRICT] [DELIM rune] [EOL DEFAULT|LF|UNIX|CRLF|WINDOWS] [NULL string] [NOHDR|NOHEADER]

NULL is a string used to indicate an SQL NULL value in the string output. If not set the empty string and NULL are the same.

RAW is CSV without a facility for quoting and `\t` as the default delimiter.

The device is either FILE filename or STDIN/STDOUT.

Any SQLite that returns rows is exported using the current DISPLAY settings.

As a statement, IMPORT creates a table and imports data into it.

IMPORT may be used in most subqueries (outside of triggers), which creates and fills temporary tables, executes the desugared SQLite then drops the tables.

The special form CREATE TABLE t (cols) FROM IMPORT imports data directly into t.

ASSERT ends the script if the scalar subquery returns anything other than 1 and prints message. If instead of a subquery an @ placeholder is given, it asserts the existence of that arg or env variable.

Otherwise, all SQLite is valid except for
- EXPLAIN/ANALYZE
- ROLLBACK (handled automatically)
- placeholders (except @ which is handled differently as noted above)

SQLite is compiled with ICU/Rtree/FTS5/json/dbstat/soundex, a regexp function that links to PCRE, and the series, nextchar, and spellfix add-ons from ext/misc in the SQLite repo.

Commit message:

rename insert from import special form to insert using import

README.md, after:

super duper pre pre alpha.

extension of sqlite language with import/export

Brief nonnormative rundown of the syntax that is subject to change at whim and probably without updating this document. For the time being further information will have to refer to the source. (Plan to have it locked down with machine-checked documentation and examples for beta).

ETLite is a superset of a (large) subset of SQLite.

These additional statements are added:
- USE [DB|DATABASE] name - allows an ETLite script to specify an existing SQLite database to be the master db of the connection. (Must be first statement in script).
- DISPLAY [TO device] [AS format] [FRAME name] - allows changing the output format and IO redirection.
- IMPORT [TEMP|TEMPORARY] [table] [(col1, col2, ...)] [FROM device] [WITH format] [FRAME name] [LIMIT n] [OFFSET n]  - allows reading formatted data into a table.
- ASSERT message, subquery - halt execution based on result of subquery.

Additionally, the @ placeholders work as follows: For @n where n is a natural number, this is the nth command line argument to the script or NULL. Otherwise @X refers to the environment variable X (or NULL if not set). Placeholders cannot be used in triggers.

For both DISPLAY and IMPORT, a FRAME names a table in a multitable format. (None are supported currently).

Currently the formats are
- CSV [STRICT] [DELIM rune] [EOL DEFAULT|LF|UNIX|CRLF|WINDOWS] [NULL string] [HDR|HEADER]
- RAW [STRICT] [DELIM rune] [EOL DEFAULT|LF|UNIX|CRLF|WINDOWS] [NULL string] [NOHDR|NOHEADER]

NULL is a string used to indicate an SQL NULL value in the string output. If not set the empty string and NULL are the same.

RAW is CSV without a facility for quoting and `\t` as the default delimiter.

The device is either FILE filename or STDIN/STDOUT.

Any SQLite that returns rows is exported using the current DISPLAY settings.

As a statement, IMPORT creates a table and imports data into it.

IMPORT may be used in most subqueries (outside of triggers), which creates and fills temporary tables, executes the desugared SQLite then drops the tables.

The special form CREATE TABLE t (cols) FROM IMPORT [...] imports data directly into t.

The special from INSERT INTO t (cols) USING IMPORT [...] imports directly into t without creating any tables. It is required to specify the cols on the INSERT portion.

ASSERT ends the script if the scalar subquery returns anything other than 1 and prints message. If instead of a subquery an @ placeholder is given, it asserts the existence of that arg or env variable.

Otherwise, all SQLite is valid except for
- EXPLAIN/ANALYZE
- ROLLBACK (handled automatically)
- placeholders (except @ which is handled differently as noted above)

SQLite is compiled with ICU/Rtree/FTS5/json/dbstat/soundex, a regexp function that links to PCRE, and the series, nextchar, and spellfix add-ons from ext/misc in the SQLite repo.
